IS-05 Requirements for NMOS Controllers (#148)
AMWA-TV/is-05: docs/Controllers.md

# Controllers

_(c) AMWA 2022, CC Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)_

## Informative

A Controller is Client software that interacts with the NMOS APIs to discover, connect and manage devices within a networked media system.

* This document includes normative references to be followed when implementing a Controller.
* This document covers how the Controller interacts with the NMOS APIs only.
  It does not cover other features of the Controller software, such as presentation.
* This document does not cover any requirements relating to where a Controller is additionally acting as a Node (e.g. receiving monitoring information via IS-07).

## General

### User

Where this document refers to the "user" of a Controller, this includes both human operators who drive the Controller manually and automation systems that drive the Controller programmatically.

> ### HTTP APIs

Reviewer: I will update this entire **HTTP APIs** section to be consistent with the rework done in the IS-04 PR when that's approved.

* This document covers how the Controller interacts with the NMOS APIs only.
  It does not cover other features of the Controller software, such as presentation.
* This document does not cover any requirements relating to where a Controller is additionally acting as a Node (e.g. receiving monitoring information via IS-07).

## General

### User
Where this document refers to the "user" of a Controller, this includes both human operators who drive the Controller manually and automation systems that drive the Controller programmatically.

### HTTP APIs

#### Trailing Slashes

Controllers appending paths to `href` type attributes MUST support URLs both with and without a trailing slash, to avoid doubled or missing slashes.

Controllers performing requests other than `GET` or `HEAD` (i.e `PUT`, `POST`, `DELETE`, `OPTIONS` etc.) MUST use URLs with no trailing slash present.

#### API Versions

The versioning format is `v<MAJOR>.<MINOR>`
* `MINOR` increments will be performed for non-breaking changes (such as the addition of attributes in a response)
* `MAJOR` increments will be performed for breaking changes (such as the renaming of a resource or attribute)

> Versions MUST be represented as complete strings. Parsing MUST proceed as follows: separate into two strings, using the point (.) as a delimiter. Compare integer representations of `MAJOR`, `MINOR` version (such that v1.12 is greater than v1.5).

Reviewer: For sections of this document that are the same as in https://github.com/AMWA-TV/is-04/pull/179, we need to ensure fixes are made consistently.

Implementers of Controllers are RECOMMENDED to support multiple versions of the NMOS APIs simultaneously in order to ease the upgrade process in live facilities.

#### API Common Keys

> Controllers SHOULD follow the requirements for common APi keys specified in the [IS-04 APIs: Common Keys](APIs%20-%20Common%20Keys.md) document including the requirements regarding [use of URNs](APIs%20-%20Common%20Keys.md#use-of-urns).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Controllers SHOULD follow the requirements for common API keys specified in the [IS-04 APIs: Common Keys](APIs%20-%20Common%20Keys.md) document including the requirements regarding [use of URNs](APIs%20-%20Common%20Keys.md#use-of-urns).
```

#### Error Codes & Responses

The NMOS APIs use HTTP status codes to indicate success, failure and other cases to Controllers as per [RFC 7231](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231) and related standards.

As explicit handling of every possible HTTP response code is not expected, Controllers MUST implement generic handling for ranges of response codes (1xx, 2xx, 3xx, 4xx and 5xx).
However, where the RAML specification of an API specifies explicit response codes the Controller SHOULD handle these cases explicitly.

For Controllers performing `GET` and `HEAD` requests, using these methods SHOULD correctly handle a `301` (Moved Permanently) response.

When a 301 is supported, the Controller MUST follow the redirect in order to retrieve the required response payload.

> If a Controller receives a HTTP 5xx or 4xx response code from the API, a failure has occurred.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a Controller receives an HTTP 5xx or 4xx response code from the API, a failure has occurred.
```

The Controller SHOULD display the content of the response's error field to the user if possible, and indicate that the resource is likely to be in an unknown state.
The Controller SHOULD also refresh the endpoints of the relevant resources to ensure the Controller is accurately reflecting the current state of the API.

## Connection Management

The Controller MUST implement connection management according to the [APIs section](APIs.md) of this specification.

> The Controller MUST be able to perform an immediate activation between a specified Sender and Receiver	via the IS-05 Connection API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Controller MUST be able to perform an immediate activation between a specified Sender and Receiver via the IS-05 Connection API.
```

The Controller MUST allow removal of active connections via the IS-05 Connection API.	

The Controller MUST monitor and update the connection status of all registered Devices. For instance:
* The Controller MUST identify that a connection to a Receiver has been activated. 

> * The Controller MUST identify the Sender connected to that Receiver. 

Reviewer: The thing it's connected to can be a non-NMOS Sender though?

Reviewer: Resolved by 31c0dc2

> * The Controller MUST Identify when the Receiver connection has been deactivated. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Controller MUST identify when the Receiver connection has been deactivated. 
```

Where making requests to a large number or Senders/Receivers on the same Device, Controllers SHOULD make use of the `/bulk` endpoint to bundle them into a single request.

> When altering the transport parameters in the `/staged` endpoint, the Controller SHOULD check the `/constraints` endpoint to check the available choices of parameters accepted by a particular sender and receiver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When altering the transport parameters in the `/staged` endpoint, the Controller SHOULD check the `/constraints` endpoint for the available choices of parameters accepted by the particular Sender and Receiver.
```

When `PATCH`ing to the transport parameters, parameters could possibly have changed since the last `GET`.

> Therefore the Controller SHOULD set parameters that are important for a connection (e.g `master_enable`/`rtp_enable`) in the `PATCH` request, even if the Controller believes they are already set as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore the Controller SHOULD set parameters that are important for a connection (e.g. `master_enable` and `rtp_enable`) in the `PATCH` request, even if the Controller believes they are already set as required.
```

When connecting a Receiver to an NMOS Sender, the Controller SHOULD communicate the Sender UUID to the receiver using the `sender_id` parameter of the `/staged` endpoint.

## Client Side Implementation Notes

Controllers MUST adhere the Client Side Implementation Notes described in this specification, namely the sections on [Conformance to Schemas](APIs%20-%20Client%20Side%20Implementation.md#conforming-to-schemas), [RTP Operating Point](APIs%20-%20Client%20Side%20Implementation.md#rtp-operating-point), and [Failure Modes](APIs%20-%20Client%20Side%20Implementation.md#failure-modes).

## Interoperability

### Identifying Active Connections

As is described in the [Identifying Active Connections section of the Interoperability: IS-04 document](Interoperability%20-%20IS-04.md#identifying-active-connections) in this specification,
in order to populate the subscription attribute of IS-04 Senders and Receivers, the Connection API includes keys for `sender_id` and `receiver_id` in its `/staged` parameters.
These SHOULD be used to signal that a Sender or Receiver is being connected to another NMOS compatible Sender or Receiver. 

> The Controller MUST set and unset (using `null`) the `sender_id` or `receiver_id` parameters when modifying the `transport_params` or `transport_file`.

Reviewer: "SHOULD be used" and then "MUST set and unset" seems odd, unless the SHOULD is not applied to Controllers... perhaps then this:

```suggestion
These are used to signal that a Sender or Receiver is connected to an NMOS Receiver or Sender. 
The Controller MUST set and unset (using `null`) the `sender_id` or `receiver_id` parameters when modifying the `transport_params` or `transport_file`.
```

### Interacting with Non-NMOS Devices

> Controllers MUST follow the requirements for a Client interacting with non-NMOS Devices, as described in the [Interoperability: Non-NMOS Devices document](Interoperability%20-%20Non-NMOS%20Devices.md) in this sepcficiation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Controllers MUST follow the requirements for a Client interacting with non-NMOS Devices, as described in the [Interoperability: Non-NMOS Devices](Interoperability%20-%20Non-NMOS%20Devices.md) section of this Specification.
```

## Behaviour

### Operation with SMPTE 2022-7

When the Controller is interacting with Receivers that support SMPTE 2022-7 it MUST follow the requirements for Clients described in the [Operation with SMPTE 2022-7 section of the Behaviour - RTP Transport Type document](Behaviour%20-%20RTP%20Transport%20Type.md#operation-with-smpte-2022-7) in this specification.

### Version Timestamp

> The Controller SHOULD use the IS-04 Query API WebSocket to monitor version timestamp increments on Devices being controlled.

Reviewer: Devices? Do we mean Senders and Receivers?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Controller SHOULD use an IS-04 Query API WebSocket connection to monitor version timestamp increments on Senders and Receivers being controlled.
```

Reviewer: Added #150

A version timestamp increment indicates that another Controller has possibly changed resource parameters, and as such any information cached by the Controller could possibly be stale.

### Sender Multicast Address

The Controller SHOULD allow allocation of multicast addresses to allow avoidance of conflicts.

> To avoid conflicts, when a Sender is added to a new system, the Controller MUST allow the use IS-05 to configure the multicast transmit information (`transport_params`) before or in the same transaction as enabling the transmitter (`master_enable` = `true`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To avoid conflicts, when a Sender is added to a new system, the Controller MUST allow the use of IS-05 to configure the multicast transmit information (`transport_params`) before or in the same transaction as enabling the transmitter (`master_enable` = `true`).
```

> ### TCP sessions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TCP Sessions
```

# Controllers

_(c) AMWA 2022, CC Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)_

## Informative

> A Controller is Client software that interacts with the NMOS APIs to discover, connect and manage devices within a networked media system.

Reviewer: Hmm, Client is capitalized here, but the term is only used lowercase in IS-04 and IS-05 currently. It is defined in BCP-003-01, but if we want to use it as a defined term that needs to be repeated or maybe referenced, doesn't it?

https://specs.amwa.tv/bcp-003-01/releases/v1.0.0/docs/1.0._Secure_Communication.html#client

Controller itself is being used as a defined term, so I think that warrants adding a normative Definitions section, perhaps in the Overview?

IS-04 probably ought to have a normative Definitions section in its Overview too, though for Node, Device, etc. it can point to https://github.com/AMWA-TV/is-04/blob/v1.3.x/docs/Data%20Model.md.

Reviewer: ARG - mid term plan, think about normative NMOS Core (with defined terms and general behaviours) or at least central definition of terms, but in short term add relevant definitions to IS-04 and IS-05.

Reviewer: Or point to (informative) [NMOS Glossary](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos/main/docs/Glossary.html) from IS-04 and IS-05 and add definitions for Client and Controller there?

Reviewer: Or point to (informative) [NMOS Glossary](https://specs.amwa.tv/nmos/main/docs/Glossary.html) from IS-04 and IS-05 and add definitions for Client and Controller there?

Reviewer: Resolved, Glossary link added in Overview

* This document includes normative references to be followed when implementing a Controller.
* This document covers how the Controller interacts with the NMOS APIs only.
  It does not cover other features of the Controller software, such as presentation.
* This document does not cover any requirements relating to where a Controller is additionally acting as a Node (e.g. receiving monitoring information via IS-07).

## General

### User

Where this document refers to the "user" of a Controller, this includes both human operators who drive the Controller manually and automation systems that drive the Controller programmatically.

### HTTP APIs

#### Trailing Slashes

> Controllers appending paths to `href` type attributes MUST support URLs both with and without a trailing slash, to avoid doubled or missing slashes.

Reviewer: As already required by https://github.com/AMWA-TV/is-05/blob/v1.1.x/docs/APIs.md#client-behaviour.

Automated test cases seem possible.

> Controllers performing requests other than `GET` or `HEAD` (i.e `PUT`, `POST`, `DELETE`, `OPTIONS` etc.) MUST use URLs with no trailing slash present.

Reviewer: As already required by https://github.com/AMWA-TV/is-05/blob/v1.1.x/docs/APIs.md#all-other-requests-put-post-delete-options-etc.

Automated test cases seem possible.

#### API Versions

The versioning format is `v<MAJOR>.<MINOR>`
* `MINOR` increments will be performed for non-breaking changes (such as the addition of attributes in a response)
* `MAJOR` increments will be performed for breaking changes (such as the renaming of a resource or attribute)

> Versions MUST be represented as complete strings. Parsing MUST proceed as follows: separate into two strings, using the point (`.`) as a delimiter. Compare integer representations of `MAJOR`, `MINOR` version (such that v1.12 is greater than v1.5).

Reviewer: This requirement is repeated from https://github.com/AMWA-TV/is-05/blob/v1.1.x/docs/APIs.md#common-api-base-resource. It could be written more clearly everywhere (first MUST doesn't really seem to be a requirement on implementations, whether Nodes or Controllers, and second and third sentence seem overly prescriptive and yet the most important bit is the parenthetical phrase!) but that's a separate issue.

Automated test cases seem tricky?

Implementers of Controllers are RECOMMENDED to support multiple versions of the NMOS APIs simultaneously in order to ease the upgrade process in live facilities.

#### API Common Keys

> Controllers SHOULD follow the requirements for common API keys specified in the [IS-04 APIs: Common Keys](APIs%20-%20Common%20Keys.md) document including the requirements regarding [use of URNs](APIs%20-%20Common%20Keys.md#use-of-urns).

Reviewer: Why not MUST?

How does this apply to IS-05? Only in the `/transporttype` endpoint? How is this actionable, what would a test case look like?

Reviewer: Actually this is another instance of "layering" conformance language; writing SHOULD here effectively weakens all of the conformance language in the referenced document. I think this needs to be rewritten as a statement of fact, "The requirements for common API keys [...] apply to Controllers."

The `/transporttype` endpoint is a fixed enumeration at IS-05 v1.1 - ([transporttype-response-schema.json](https://github.com/AMWA-TV/is-05/blob/v1.1.x/APIs/schemas/transporttype-response-schema.json)) - so the extensibility implied by URNs is not yet used.

I'm not sure, therefore, whether there is actually a sensible test case right now, except that Controllers handle _all_ transport types.

```suggestion
The requirements in the [APIs: Common Keys](APIs%20-%20Common%20Keys.md) section of the IS-04 specification, including those regarding [handling of URNs](APIs%20-%20Common%20Keys.md#use-of-urns), apply generally to Controllers' interactions with the NMOS APIs.
```

Or maybe that's awkward? In which case, maybe...

```suggestion
Controllers MUST follow the requirements in the [APIs: Common Keys](APIs%20-%20Common%20Keys.md) section of the IS-04 specification, including the requirements regarding [use of URNs](APIs%20-%20Common%20Keys.md#use-of-urns), since these apply generally to NMOS APIs.
```

Reviewer: ARG question: are we happy with the cross-link to IS-04?

Some options:

1. MUST (and fix link to point at IS-04 APIs: Common Keys)
2. MUST and duplicate IS-04 APIs: Common Keys: Use of URNs only into IS-05
3. Delete this section completely since it only applies to correct handling of `controls` in IS-04 (and in the future to the _/transporttye_ endpoint)
4. Move this section down to Interoperability: IS-04: Discovery section in this doc
5. ... 🤔 💭 ...

Decided keeping cross-link would be OK if it's an interoperability with IS-04 section (i.e. option 4) though we will need to duplicate Use of URNs in IS-05 (or the NMOS Core spec) when _/transporttype_ becomes extensible.

Reviewer: Resolved

#### Error Codes & Responses

The NMOS APIs use HTTP status codes to indicate success, failure and other cases to Controllers as per [RFC 7231](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231) and related standards.

As explicit handling of every possible HTTP response code is not expected, Controllers MUST implement generic handling for ranges of response codes (`1xx`, `2xx`, `3xx`, `4xx` and `5xx`).

> However, where the RAML specification of an API specifies explicit response codes the Controller SHOULD handle these cases explicitly.

Reviewer: This adds conformance key words to the language from https://github.com/AMWA-TV/is-05/blob/v1.1.x/docs/APIs.md#error-codes--responses. In that document, the language is "it is expected that" in both cases, but here we have one MUST and one SHOULD. In some cases the explicitly specified response codes do indicate something that could be handled automatically/brought to the user's attention, e.g. in IS-05 `409 Conflict` and `423 Locked`. Thoughts?

Automated test cases seem possible.

Reviewer: ARG - it's fine as is

```suggestion
As explicit handling of every possible HTTP response code is not expected, Controllers MUST implement generic handling for ranges of response codes (`1xx`, `2xx`, `3xx`, `4xx` and `5xx`).
However, where the API specifies explicit response codes the Controller SHOULD handle these cases explicitly.
```

For Controllers performing `GET` and `HEAD` requests, using these methods SHOULD correctly handle a `301` (Moved Permanently) response.

> When a `301` is supported, the Controller MUST follow the redirect in order to retrieve the required response payload.

Reviewer: As already required by https://github.com/AMWA-TV/is-05/blob/v1.1.x/docs/APIs.md#get-and-head-requests.
(As pointed out in https://github.com/AMWA-TV/is-04/pull/179#discussion_r848071757 this seems like strange conformance language: "SHOULD handle a `301` [and if it does] MUST follow the redirect" but improving this is a separate issue.)

Automated test cases seem possible I think?

If a Controller receives an HTTP `5xx` or `4xx` response code from the API, a failure has occurred.

> The Controller SHOULD display the content of the response's error field to the user if possible, and indicate that the resource is likely to be in an unknown state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Controller SHOULD display the content of the response's error field to the User if possible, and indicate that the resource is likely to be in an unknown state.
```

The Controller SHOULD also refresh the endpoints of the relevant resources to ensure the Controller is accurately reflecting the current state of the API.

## Connection Management

The Controller MUST implement connection management according to the [APIs section](APIs.md) of this specification.

The Controller MUST be able to perform an immediate activation between a specified Sender and Receiver via the IS-05 Connection API.

The Controller MUST allow removal of active connections via the IS-05 Connection API.	

> The Controller MUST monitor and update the connection status of all registered Devices. For instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Controller MUST monitor and update the connection status of all discovered IS-05 Senders and Receivers. For instance:
```

* The Controller MUST identify that a connection to a Receiver has been activated. 

> * The Controller MUST identify the Sender connected to that Receiver. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The Controller MUST be able to identify when an NMOS Sender is connected to that Receiver.
```

> * The Controller MUST identify when the Receiver connection has been deactivated. 

Reviewer: I believe these requirements all come from JT-NM TR-1001-1 / JT-NM Tested.

I think these are covered by the shiny new Controller test suite, IS-05-03.

> Where making requests to a large number or Senders/Receivers on the same Device, Controllers SHOULD make use of the `/bulk` endpoint to bundle them into a single request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where making requests to a large number of Senders and/or Receivers on the same Device, Controllers SHOULD make use of the `/bulk` endpoint to bundle them into a single request.
```

> When altering the transport parameters in the `/staged` endpoint, the Controller SHOULD check the `/constraints` endpoint for the available choices of parameters accepted by the particular Sender and Receiver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When altering the transport parameters in the `/staged` endpoint, the Controller SHOULD check the `/constraints` endpoint for the available choices of parameters accepted by the particular Sender or Receiver.
```

When `PATCH`ing to the transport parameters, parameters could possibly have changed since the last `GET`.
Therefore the Controller SHOULD set parameters that are important for a connection (e.g. `master_enable` and `rtp_enable`) in the `PATCH` request, even if the Controller believes they are already set as required.

When connecting a Receiver to an NMOS Sender, the Controller SHOULD communicate the Sender UUID to the receiver using the `sender_id` parameter of the `/staged` endpoint.

## Client Side Implementation Notes

> Controllers MUST adhere the Client Side Implementation Notes described in this specification, namely the sections on [Conformance to Schemas](APIs%20-%20Client%20Side%20Implementation.md#conforming-to-schemas), [RTP Operating Point](APIs%20-%20Client%20Side%20Implementation.md#rtp-operating-point), and [Failure Modes](APIs%20-%20Client%20Side%20Implementation.md#failure-modes).

Reviewer: Hmm, what happens when another section is introduced in that page?

Suggest:

```suggestion
Controllers MUST adhere to the [Client Side Implementation Notes]((APIs%20-%20Client%20Side%20Implementation.md) described in this specification, such as the sections on Conformance to Schemas, RTP Operating Point, and Failure Modes.
```

## Interoperability

### Identifying Active Connections

> As is described in the [Identifying Active Connections section of the Interoperability: IS-04 document](Interoperability%20-%20IS-04.md#identifying-active-connections) in this specification,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As is described in the [Interoperability: IS-04: Identifying Active Connections](Interoperability%20-%20IS-04.md#identifying-active-connections) section of this specification,
```

> in order to populate the subscription attribute of IS-04 Senders and Receivers, the Connection API includes keys for `sender_id` and `receiver_id` in its `/staged` parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As is described in the [Identifying Active Connections section of the Interoperability: IS-04 document](Interoperability%20-%20IS-04.md#identifying-active-connections) in this specification,
in order to populate the subscription attribute of IS-04 Senders and Receivers, the Connection API includes keys for `sender_id` and `receiver_id` in its `/active` and `/staged` parameters.
```

These are used to signal that a Sender or Receiver is connected to an NMOS Receiver or Sender. 
The Controller MUST set and unset (using `null`) the `sender_id` or `receiver_id` parameters when modifying the `transport_params` or `transport_file`.

### Interacting with Non-NMOS Devices

Controllers MUST follow the requirements for a Client interacting with non-NMOS Devices, as described in the [Interoperability: Non-NMOS Devices](Interoperability%20-%20Non-NMOS%20Devices.md) section of this Specification.

## Behaviour

### Operation with SMPTE 2022-7

> When the Controller is interacting with Receivers that support SMPTE 2022-7 it MUST follow the requirements for Clients described in the [Operation with SMPTE 2022-7 section of the Behaviour - RTP Transport Type document](Behaviour%20-%20RTP%20Transport%20Type.md#operation-with-smpte-2022-7) in this specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Controller is interacting with Receivers that support SMPTE 2022-7 it MUST follow the requirements for Clients described in the [Behaviour: RTP Transport Type: Operation with SMPTE 2022-7](Behaviour%20-%20RTP%20Transport%20Type.md#operation-with-smpte-2022-7) section of this specification.
```

### Version Timestamp

> The Controller SHOULD use an IS-04 Query API WebSocket connection to monitor version timestamp increments on Senders and Receivers being controlled.

Reviewer: Automated test cases seems possible.

> A version timestamp increment indicates that another Controller has possibly changed resource parameters, and as such any information cached by the Controller could possibly be stale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A version timestamp increment indicates that the properties of a resource have changed, for example by the action of another Controller, and as such any information cached by the Controller could possibly be stale.
```

### Sender Multicast Address

> The Controller SHOULD allow allocation of multicast addresses to allow avoidance of conflicts.

Reviewer: Is this intended to recommend that Controllers implement _automatic_ allocation of multicast addresses? With "allow" in this sentence, it seems like a manual procedure would meet the recommendation, making this a weaker version of the following sentence which has this as a REQUIREMENT?

JT-NM TR-1001-1 from which I assume this was derived says:

> Allocation of multicast addresses and avoidance of conflicts is the responsibility of the management system.

Although that doesn't use conformance key words, it seems intended to be a fairly strong requirement?

Reviewer 2: No, I believe the requirement was for the controller to allow setting the multicast addresses via any means (either manual or automated).

> The Controller SHOULD allow allocation of multicast addresses to allow avoidance of conflicts.
> To avoid conflicts, when a Sender is added to a new system, the Controller MUST allow the use of IS-05 to configure the multicast transmit information (`transport_params`) before or in the same transaction as enabling the transmitter (`master_enable` = `true`).

Reviewer: ARG brainstormed suggestion:

```suggestion
The Controller MUST allow the User to configure the multicast transmit information (using IS-05 `transport_params`) before or in the same transaction as enabling the transmitter (setting `master_enable` to `true`).
This allows avoiding conflicts with other senders' configurations, in particular when a Sender is added to a new system.
```

> To avoid conflicts, when a Sender is added to a new system, the Controller MUST allow the use of IS-05 to configure the multicast transmit information (`transport_params`) before or in the same transaction as enabling the transmitter (`master_enable` = `true`).

Reviewer: From JT-NM TR-1001-1.

Semi-automated test cases (like IS-05-03) seem possible.

### TCP Sessions

The Controller SHOULD use persistent TCP connections wherever possible,
to allow multiple operations to be performed without repeatedly closing and reopening connections for each operation.

> 
> The use of HTTP pipelining has been known to cause interoperability issues in some cases.

Reviewer: ARG - let's take this out of the spec, possibly add it to the INFO doc if it's not there already!

```suggestion
```

> to allow multiple operations to be performed without repeatedly closing and reopening connections for each operation.

Reviewer: Automated test cases seem possible.

> The use of HTTP pipelining has been known to cause interoperability issues in some cases.

Reviewer: Citation needed?

![Citation needed](https://www.explainxkcd.com/wiki/images/a/ae/wikipedian_protester.png)

Reviewer: ARG - let's take this out of the spec, possibly add it to the INFO doc if it's not there already!

```suggestion
```

> If the Controller uses HTTP pipelining, it SHOULD follow the guidelines set out in [RFC 7230 section 6.3.2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7230#section-6.3.2).

Reviewer: Automated test cases are probably doable? Node's communication with Registry could have the same kind of test...

Reviewer: I think since RFC 7230 section 6.3.2 itself uses conformance language, this statement needs either to say MUST or be written as fact, e.g.

```suggestion
If the Controller uses HTTP pipelining, the guidelines set out in [RFC 7230 section 6.3.2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7230#section-6.3.2) apply.
```

Reviewer: Should this document also say something about the use of concurrent connections? See e.g. https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7230#section-6.4. Note that some implementations of NMOS APIs have been known which do not support concurrent connections...

Reviewer: ARG - accept suggestion but the RFC section on concurrent connections is next to useless so no point referencing.
